# A flagged dataset of 100 random bee occurrence records

A small bee occurrence dataset with flags generated by BeeBDC used to
run example script and test functions. For data types, see
[`ColTypeR()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/ColTypeR.md).

## Usage

``` r
data("beesFlagged", package = "BeeBDC")
```

## Format

An object of class `"tibble"`

- database_id:

  Occurrence code generated in bdc or BeeBDC

- scientificName:

  Full scientificName as shown on DiscoverLife

- family:

  Family name

- subfamily:

  Subfamily name

- genus:

  Genus name

- subgenus:

  Subgenus name

- subspecies:

  Full name with subspecies name - ALA column

- specificEpithet:

  The species name only

- infraspecificEpithet:

  The subspecies name only

- acceptedNameUsage:

  The full name, with authorship and date information if known, of the
  currently valid (zoological) or accepted (botanical) taxon.

- taxonRank:

  The taxonomic rank of the most specific name in the scientificName.

- scientificNameAuthorship:

  The authorship information for the scientificName formatted according
  to the conventions of the applicable nomenclaturalCode.

- identificationQualifier:

  A brief phrase or a standard term ("cf.", "aff.") to express the
  determiner's doubts about the Identification.

- higherClassification:

  A list (concatenated and separated) of taxa names terminating at the
  rank immediately superior to the taxon referenced in the taxon
  record.)

- identificationReferences:

  A list (concatenated and separated) of references (publication, global
  unique identifier, URI) used in the Identification.

- typeStatus:

  A list (concatenated and separated) of nomenclatural types (type
  status, typified scientific name, publication) applied to the subject.

- previousIdentifications:

  A list (concatenated and separated) of previous assignments of names
  to the Organism.

- verbatimIdentification:

  This term is meant to allow the capture of an unaltered original
  identification/determination, including identification qualifiers,
  hybrid formulas, uncertainties, etc. This term is meant to be used in
  addition to scientificName (and identificationQualifier etc.), not
  instead of it.

- identifiedBy:

  A list (concatenated and separated) of names of people, groups, or
  organizations who assigned the Taxon to the subject.

- dateIdentified:

  The date on which the subject was determined as representing the
  Taxon.

- decimalLatitude:

  The geographic latitude (in decimal degrees, using the spatial
  reference system given in geodeticDatum) of the geographic center of a
  Location. Positive values are north of the Equator, negative values
  are south of it. Legal values lie between -90 and 90, inclusive.

- decimalLongitude:

  The geographic longitude (in decimal degrees, using the spatial
  reference system given in geodeticDatum) of the geographic center of a
  Location. Positive values are east of the Greenwich Meridian, negative
  values are west of it. Legal values lie between -180 and 180,
  inclusive.

- stateProvince:

  The name of the next smaller administrative region than country
  (state, province, canton, department, region, etc.) in which the
  Location occurs.

- continent:

  The name of the continent in which the Location occurs.

- locality:

  The specific description of the place.

- island:

  The name of the island on or near which the Location occurs.

- county:

  The full, unabbreviated name of the next smaller administrative region
  than stateProvince (county, shire, department, etc.) in which the
  Location occurs.

- municipality:

  The full, unabbreviated name of the next smaller administrative region
  than county (city, municipality, etc.) in which the Location occurs.
  Do not use this term for a nearby named place that does not contain
  the actual location.

- license:

  A legal document giving official permission to do something with the
  resource.

- issue:

  A GBIF-defined issue.

- eventDate:

  The date-time or interval during which an Event occurred. For
  occurrences, this is the date-time when the event was recorded. Not
  suitable for a time in a geological context.

- eventTime:

  The time or interval during which an Event occurred.

- day:

  The integer day of the month on which the Event occurred.

- month:

  The integer month in which the Event occurred.

- year:

  The four-digit year in which the Event occurred, according to the
  Common Era Calendar.

- basisOfRecord:

  The specific nature of the data record. Recommended best practice is
  to use the standard label of one of the Darwin Core
  classes.PreservedSpecimen, FossilSpecimen, LivingSpecimen,
  MaterialSample, Event, HumanObservation, MachineObservation, Taxon,
  Occurrence, MaterialCitation

- country:

  The name of the country or major administrative unit in which the
  Location occurs.

- type:

  The nature or genre of the resource. StillImage, MovingImage, Sound,
  PhysicalObject, Event, Text.

- occurrenceStatus:

  A statement about the presence or absence of a Taxon at a Location.
  present, absent.

- recordNumber:

  An identifier given to the Occurrence at the time it was recorded.
  Often serves as a link between field notes and an Occurrence record,
  such as a specimen collector's number.

- recordedBy:

  A list (concatenated and separated) of names of people, groups, or
  organizations responsible for recording the original Occurrence. The
  primary collector or observer, especially one who applies a personal
  identifier (recordNumber), should be listed first.

- eventID:

  An identifier for the set of information associated with an Event
  (something that occurs at a place and time). May be a global unique
  identifier or an identifier specific to the data set.

- Location:

  A spatial region or named place.

- samplingProtocol:

  The names of, references to, or descriptions of the methods or
  protocols used during an Event. Examples UV light trap, mist net,
  bottom trawl, ad hoc observation \| point count, Penguins from space:
  faecal stains reveal the location of emperor penguin colonies,
  https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1466-8238.2009.00467.x, Takats et al. 2001.

- samplingEffort:

  The amount of effort expended during an Event. Examples 40
  trap-nights, 10 observer-hours, 10 km by foot, 30 km by car.

- individualCount:

  The number of individuals present at the time of the Occurrence.
  Integer.

- organismQuantity:

  A number or enumeration value for the quantity of organisms. Examples
  27 (organismQuantity) with individuals (organismQuantityType). 12.5
  (organismQuantity) with percentage biomass (organismQuantityType). r
  (organismQuantity) with Braun Blanquet Scale (organismQuantityType).
  many (organismQuantity) with individuals (organismQuantityType).

- coordinatePrecision:

  A decimal representation of the precision of the coordinates given in
  the decimalLatitude and decimalLongitude.

- coordinateUncertaintyInMeters:

  The horizontal distance (in meters) from the given decimalLatitude and
  decimalLongitude describing the smallest circle containing the whole
  of the Location. Leave the value empty if the uncertainty is unknown,
  cannot be estimated, or is not applicable (because there are no
  coordinates). Zero is not a valid value for this term.

- spatiallyValid:

  Occurrence records in the ALA can be filtered by using the spatially
  valid flag. This flag combines a set of tests applied to the record to
  see how reliable are its spatial data components.

- catalogNumber:

  An identifier (preferably unique) for the record within the data set
  or collection.

- gbifID:

  The identifier assigned by GBIF for each record.

- datasetID:

  An identifier for the set of data. May be a global unique identifier
  or an identifier specific to a collection or institution.

- institutionCode:

  The name (or acronym) in use by the institution having custody of the
  object(s) or information referred to in the record. Examples MVZ,
  FMNH, CLO, UCMP.

- datasetName:

  The name identifying the data set from which the record was derived.

- otherCatalogNumbers:

  A list (concatenated and separated) of previous or alternate fully
  qualified catalog numbers or other human-used identifiers for the same
  Occurrence, whether in the current or any other data set or
  collection.

- occurrenceID:

  An identifier for the Occurrence (as opposed to a particular digital
  record of the occurrence). In the absence of a persistent global
  unique identifier, construct one from a combination of identifiers in
  the record that will most closely make the occurrenceID globally
  unique.

- taxonKey:

  The GBIF-assigned taxon identifier number.

- collectionID:

  An identifier for the collection or dataset from which the record was
  derived.

- verbatim_scientificName:

  The verbatim (originally-provided) scientific name

- verbatimEventDate:

  The verbatim original representation of the date and time information
  for an Event.

- associatedTaxa:

  A list (concatenated and separated) of identifiers or names of taxa
  and the associations of this Occurrence to each of them.

- associatedOrganisms:

  A list (concatenated and separated) of identifiers of other Organisms
  and the associations of this Organism to each of them.

- fieldNotes:

  One of a) an indicator of the existence of, b) a reference to
  (publication, URI), or c) the text of notes taken in the field about
  the Event.

- sex:

  The sex of the biological individual(s) represented in the Occurrence.

- rights:

  A description of the usage rights applicable to the record.

- rightsHolder:

  A person or organization owning or managing rights over the resource.

- accessRights:

  Information about who can access the resource or an indication of its
  security status.

- associatedReferences:

  A list (concatenated and separated) of identifiers (publication,
  bibliographic reference, global unique identifier, URI) of literature
  associated with the Occurrence.

- bibliographicCitation:

  A bibliographic reference for the resource as a statement indicating
  how this record should be cited (attributed) when used.

- references:

  A related resource that is referenced, cited, or otherwise pointed to
  by the described resource.

- informationWithheld:

  Additional information that exists, but that has not been shared in
  the given record.

- isDuplicateOf:

  Additional information that exists, but that has not been shared in
  the given record.

- hasCoordinate:

  Variable indicating presence/absence of location coordinates.

- hasGeospatialIssues:

  Variable indicating validity of geospatial data associated with
  record.

- occurrenceYear:

  Year associated with Occurrence.

- id:

  Variable with identifying value for the Occurrenc.

- duplicateStatus:

  Variable indicating is Occurrence is duplicate or not.

- associatedOccurrences:

  A list (concatenated and separated) of identifiers of other Occurrence
  records and their associations to this Occurrence.

- locationRemarks:

  Comments or notes about the Location.

- dataSource:

  BeeBDC assigned source of the data. Often written when the data is
  formatted by a BeeBDC::xxx_readr function or similar.

- verbatim_scientificName:

  The verbatim (originally-provided) scientific name

- .scientificName_empty:

  Flag produced by
  [`bdc::bdc_scientificName_empty()`](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_scientificName_empty.html)
  where FALSE == no scientific name provided and TRUE means that there
  is text in that column.

- .coordinates_empty:

  Flag produced by
  [`bdc::bdc_coordinates_empty()`](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_coordinates_empty.html)
  where FALSE == no coordinates provided.

- .coordinates_outOfRange:

  Flag produced by
  [`bdc::bdc_coordinates_outOfRange()`](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_coordinates_outOfRange.html)
  where FALSE == point off the earth. This function identifies records
  with out-of-range coordinates (not between -90 and 90 for latitude;
  between -180 and 180 for longitude).

- .basisOfRecords_notStandard:

  Flag produced by
  [`bdc::bdc_basisOfRecords_notStandard()`](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_basisOfRecords_notStandard.html)
  where FALSE == an occurrence with a basisOfRecord not defined as
  acceptable by the user.

- country_suggested:

  A country name suggested by the
  [`bdc::bdc_country_standardized()`](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_country_standardized.html)
  function.

- countryCode:

  A country code suggested by the
  [`bdc::bdc_country_standardized()`](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_country_standardized.html)
  function.

- coordinates_transposed:

  A column indicating if coordinates were tansposed by
  [`jbd_Ctrans_chunker()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/jbd_Ctrans_chunker.md)
  where FALSE == transposed.

- .coordinates_country_inconsistent:

  A flag generated by
  [`jbd_coordCountryInconsistent()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/jbd_coordCountryInconsistent.md)
  where FALSE == an occurrence where the country name and coordinates
  did not match.

- .occurrenceAbsent:

  A flag generated by
  [`flagAbsent()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/flagAbsent.md)
  where FALSE == occurrences marked as "ABSENT" in the
  "occurrenceStatus" column

- .unLicensed:

  A flag generated by
  [`flagLicense()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/flagLicense.md)
  where FALSE == those occurrences protected by a restrictive license.

- .GBIFflags:

  A flag generated by
  [`GBIFissues()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/GBIFissues.md)
  where FALSE == an occurrence with user-specified GBIF issues to flag.

- .uncer_terms:

  A flag generated by
  [`bdc::bdc_clean_names()`](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_clean_names.html)
  where FALSE == the presence of taxonomic uncertainty terms.

- names_clean:

  A column made by
  [`bdc::bdc_clean_names()`](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_clean_names.html)
  indicating the cleaned scientificName

- .invalidName:

  A flag generated by
  [`harmoniseR()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/HarmoniseR.md)
  where FALSE == occurrences whose scientificName did not match the
  Discover Life taxonomy.

- .rou:

  A flag generated by
  [`CoordinateCleaner::clean_coordinates()`](https://ropensci.github.io/CoordinateCleaner/reference/clean_coordinates.html)
  where FALSE == rounded (probably imprecise) coordinates.

- .val:

  A flag generated by
  [`CoordinateCleaner::clean_coordinates()`](https://ropensci.github.io/CoordinateCleaner/reference/clean_coordinates.html)
  where FALSE == invalid coordinates.

- .equ:

  A flag generated by
  [`CoordinateCleaner::clean_coordinates()`](https://ropensci.github.io/CoordinateCleaner/reference/clean_coordinates.html)
  where FALSE == equal coordinates (e.g., 0.1, 0.1).

- .zer:

  A flag generated by
  [`CoordinateCleaner::clean_coordinates()`](https://ropensci.github.io/CoordinateCleaner/reference/clean_coordinates.html)
  where FALSE == zeros as coordinates

- .cap:

  A flag generated by
  [`CoordinateCleaner::clean_coordinates()`](https://ropensci.github.io/CoordinateCleaner/reference/clean_coordinates.html)
  where FALSE == records around country capital centroid.

- .cen:

  A flag generated by
  [`CoordinateCleaner::clean_coordinates()`](https://ropensci.github.io/CoordinateCleaner/reference/clean_coordinates.html)
  where FALSE == records around country or province centroids.

- .gbf:

  A flag generated by
  [`CoordinateCleaner::clean_coordinates()`](https://ropensci.github.io/CoordinateCleaner/reference/clean_coordinates.html)
  where FALSE == records around the GBIF headquarters.

- .inst:

  A flag generated by
  [`CoordinateCleaner::clean_coordinates()`](https://ropensci.github.io/CoordinateCleaner/reference/clean_coordinates.html)
  where FALSE == records around biodiversity institutions.

- .sequential:

  A flag generated by
  [`diagonAlley()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/diagonAlley.md)
  where FALSE == records that are possibly the result of fill-down
  errors in sequence.

- .lonFlag:

  A flag generated by
  [`CoordinateCleaner::cd_round()`](https://ropensci.github.io/CoordinateCleaner/reference/cd_round.html)
  where FALSE == potential gridding in the longitude column within
  dataset.

- .latFlag:

  A flag generated by
  [`CoordinateCleaner::cd_round()`](https://ropensci.github.io/CoordinateCleaner/reference/cd_round.html)
  where FALSE == potential gridding in the latitude column within
  dataset.

- .gridSummary:

  A flag generated by
  [`CoordinateCleaner::cd_round()`](https://ropensci.github.io/CoordinateCleaner/reference/cd_round.html)
  where FALSE == potential gridding in either the longitude or latitude
  columns within dataset.

- .uncertaintyThreshold:

  A flag generated by
  [`coordUncerFlagR()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/coordUncerFlagR.md)
  where FALSE == occurrences that did not pass a user-specified
  threshold in the "coordinateUncertaintyInMeters" column.

- countryMatch:

  A column made by
  [`countryOutlieRs()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/countryOutlieRs.md).
  Summarises the occurrence-level result: where the species is not known
  to occur in that country (noMatch), it is known from a bordering
  country (neighbour), or it is known to occur in that country (exact).

- .countryOutlier:

  A flag generated by
  [`countryOutlieRs()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/countryOutlieRs.md)
  where FALSE == occurrences the do not occur in a country that concurs
  with the Discover Life country checklist OR an adjacent country.

- .sea:

  A flag generated by
  [`countryOutlieRs()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/countryOutlieRs.md)
  where FALSE == occurrences that are in the ocean.

- .summary:

  A flag generated by
  [`summaryFun()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/summaryFun.md)
  where FALSE == occurrences flagged as FALSE in any of the .flag
  columns. In this example it excludes flags in the ".gridSummary",
  ".lonFlag", ".latFlag", and ".uncer_terms" columns.

- .eventDate_empty:

  A flag generated by
  [`bdc::bdc_eventDate_empty()`](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_eventDate_empty.html)
  where FALSE == occurrences with no eventDate provided.

- .year_outOfRange:

  A flag generated by
  [`bdc::bdc_year_outOfRange()`](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_year_outOfRange.html)
  where FALSE == occurrences older than a threshold date. In this case
  1950.

- .duplicates:

  A flag generated by
  [`dupeSummary()`](https://jbdorey.github.io/BeeBDC/reference/dupeSummary.md)
  where FALSE == occurrences identified as duplicates. There will be an
  associated kept duplicate (.duplictes == TRUE) for all duplicate
  clusters.

## References

This data set was created by generating a random subset of 100 rows from
the full BeeBDC dataset from the publication: Dorey, J.B., Fischer,
E.E., Chesshire, P.R., Nava-Bolaños, A., O’Reilly, R.L., Bossert, S.,
Collins, S.M., Lichtenberg, E.M., Tucker, E., Smith-Pardo, A.,
Falcon-Brindis, A., Guevara, D.A., Ribeiro, B.R., de Pedro, D., Hung,
J.K.-L., Parys, K.A., McCabe, L.M., Rogan, M.S., Minckley, R.L., Velzco,
S.J.E., Griswold, T., Zarrillo, T.A., Jetz, W., Sica, Y.V., Orr, M.C.,
Guzman, L.M., Ascher, J., Hughes, A.C. & Cobb, N.S. (2023) A globally
synthesised and flagged bee occurrence dataset and cleaning workflow.
Scientific Data, 10, 1–17.
https://www.doi.org/10.1038/S41597-023-02626-W

## Examples

``` r
beesFlagged <- BeeBDC::beesFlagged
head(beesFlagged)
#> # A tibble: 6 × 124
#>   database_id  scientificName family subfamily genus subgenus subspecies species
#>   <chr>        <chr>          <chr>  <chr>     <chr> <chr>    <lgl>      <chr>  
#> 1 Dorey_data_… Pseudoanthidi… Megac… Megachil… Pseu… NA       NA         Pseudo…
#> 2 Dorey_data_… Macrotera arc… Andre… Panurgin… Macr… NA       NA         Macrot…
#> 3 Dorey_data_… Xanthesma fur… Colle… Euryglos… Xant… NA       NA         Xanthe…
#> 4 Dorey_data_… Exomalopsis s… Apidae Apinae    Exom… NA       NA         Exomal…
#> 5 Dorey_data_… Osmia bicolor… Megac… Megachil… Osmia NA       NA         Osmia …
#> 6 Paige_data_… Augochlorella… Halic… Halictin… Augo… NA       NA         Augoch…
#> # ℹ 116 more variables: specificEpithet <chr>, infraspecificEpithet <chr>,
#> #   acceptedNameUsage <lgl>, taxonRank <chr>, scientificNameAuthorship <chr>,
#> #   identificationQualifier <lgl>, higherClassification <chr>,
#> #   identificationReferences <lgl>, typeStatus <chr>,
#> #   previousIdentifications <chr>, verbatimIdentification <chr>,
#> #   identifiedBy <chr>, dateIdentified <chr>, decimalLatitude <dbl>,
#> #   decimalLongitude <dbl>, stateProvince <chr>, continent <chr>, …
```
