# Identify transposed geographic coordinates

This function flags and corrects records when latitude and longitude
appear to be transposed. This function will preferably use the
countryCode column generated by
[`bdc::bdc_country_standardized()`](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_country_standardized.html).

## Usage

``` r
jbd_coordinates_transposed(
  data,
  idcol = "database_id",
  sci_names = "scientificName",
  lat = "decimalLatitude",
  lon = "decimalLongitude",
  country = "country",
  countryCode = "countryCode",
  border_buffer = 0.2,
  save_outputs = FALSE,
  fileName = NULL,
  scale = "large",
  path = NULL,
  mc.cores = 1
)
```

## Arguments

- data:

  A data frame or tibble. Containing a unique identifier for each
  record, geographical coordinates, and country names. Coordinates must
  be expressed in decimal degrees and WGS84.

- idcol:

  A character string. The column name with a unique record identifier.
  Default = "database_id".

- sci_names:

  A character string. The column name with species' scientific names.
  Default = "scientificName".

- lat:

  A character string. The column name with latitudes. Coordinates must
  be expressed in decimal degrees and WGS84. Default =
  "decimalLatitude".

- lon:

  A character string. The column name with longitudes. Coordinates must
  be expressed in decimal degrees and WGS84. Default =
  "decimalLongitude".

- country:

  A character string. The column name with the country assignment of
  each occurrence record. Default = "country".

- countryCode:

  A character string. The column name containing an ISO-2 country code
  for each record.

- border_buffer:

  Numeric. Must have value greater than or equal to 0. A distance in
  decimal degrees used to created a buffer around each country. Records
  within a given country and at a specified distance from the border
  will be not be corrected. Default = 0.2 (~22 km at the equator).

- save_outputs:

  Logical. Indicates if a table containing transposed coordinates should
  be saved for further inspection. Default = FALSE.

- fileName:

  A character string. The out file's name.

- scale:

  Passed to rnaturalearth's ne_countries(). Scale of map to return, one
  of 110, 50, 10 or 'small', 'medium', 'large'. Default = "large".

- path:

  A character string. A path as a character vector for where to create
  the directories and save the figures. If no path is provided (the
  default), the directories will be created using
  [`here::here()`](https://here.r-lib.org/reference/here.html).

- mc.cores:

  Numeric. If \> 1, the jbd_correct_coordinates function will run in
  parallel using mclapply using the number of cores specified. If = 1
  then it will be run using a serial loop. NOTE: Windows machines must
  use a value of 1 (see ?parallel::mclapply). Additionally, be aware
  that each thread can use large chunks of memory. Default = 1.#'

## Value

A tibble containing the column "coordinates_transposed" which indicates
if verbatim coordinates were not transposed (TRUE). Otherwise records
are flagged as (FALSE) and, in this case, verbatim coordinates are
replaced by corrected coordinates.

## Details

This test identifies transposed coordinates based on mismatches between
the country provided for a record and the record’s latitude and
longitude coordinates. Transposed coordinates often fall outside of the
indicated country (i.e., in other countries or in the sea). Different
coordinate transformations are performed to correct country/coordinates
mismatches. Importantly, verbatim coordinates are replaced by the
corrected ones in the returned database. A database containing verbatim
and corrected coordinates is created in
"Output/Check/01_coordinates_transposed.csv" if save_outputs == TRUE.
The columns "country" and "countryCode" can be retrieved by using the
function
[bdc::bdc_country_standardized](https://brunobrr.github.io/bdc/reference/bdc_country_standardized.html).

## Examples

``` r
# \donttest{
database_id <- c(1, 2, 3, 4)
scientificName <- c(
  "Rhinella major", "Scinax ruber",
  "Siparuna guianensis", "Psychotria vellosiana"
)
decimalLatitude <- c(63.43333, -14.43333, -41.90000, -46.69778)
decimalLongitude <- c(-17.90000, -67.91667, -13.25000, -13.82444)
country <- c("BOLIVIA", "bolivia", "Brasil", "Brazil")

x <- data.frame(
  database_id, scientificName, decimalLatitude,
  decimalLongitude, country
)

# Get country codes
x <- bdc::bdc_country_standardized(data = x, country = "country")
#> Loading auxiliary data: country names
#> Standardizing country names
#> country found: Bolivia
#> country found: Brazil
#> 
#> bdc_country_standardized:
#> The country names of 3 records were standardized.
#> Two columns ('country_suggested' and 'countryCode') were added to the database.

jbd_coordinates_transposed(
  data = x,
  idcol = "database_id",
  sci_names = "scientificName",
  lat = "decimalLatitude",
  lon = "decimalLongitude",
  country = "country_suggested",
  countryCode = "countryCode",
  border_buffer = 0.2,
  save_outputs = FALSE,
  scale = "medium"
) 
#> Error in jbd_coordinates_transposed(data = x, idcol = "database_id", sci_names = "scientificName",     lat = "decimalLatitude", lon = "decimalLongitude", country = "country_suggested",     countryCode = "countryCode", border_buffer = 0.2, save_outputs = FALSE,     scale = "medium"): could not find function "jbd_coordinates_transposed"
# }
```
